Grid mode is very similar to Selenium Server and is now
just functionality built into that Server.
This technology allows us to take a test and run it on a number of
different machines that are part of this grid.
We still send our test to a remote entity. But instead of it being a server,
it's a hub.
This sounds a little complicated, but it's really not that difficult.
It's the same basic idea as Selenium Server.
The only difference is we have a network of servers, and one
of those servers is going to be the hub.
It's going to orchestrate everything that goes on
within that Selenium Server network.
So we're going to have the same model here.
We're going to run our tests, and we're going to specify the hub
name, and then that hub will decide where to run those tests based
on the nodes that are registered with it.
So we're going to have different instances of Selenium Servers,
and they are going to communicate with the hub.
And each one of those nodes might have different drivers or different browser
capabilities, and it will select a particular node based on those capabilities
in order to run that test and report back with the results. You can imagine
also that this would be helpful to be able to run a whole suite of tests
simultaneously. If you have some way of running your Selenium tests or
executing them in parallel, then you can send all of them to the hub, and the
hub will redistribute the execution amongst the nodes and give you those
results back.
It's a good way to split up your test suite and just a useful
way to be able to utilize testing on different machines and
different configurations without having to run your entire test suite on each and everyone.